src/content/articles/creators-who-mock-their-own-craft-examples.md, before:

---
keywords: [
  "engineers automation AI",
  "comedians self-aware comedy",
  "creators obsolescence automation",
  "Bo Burnham meta-comedy",
  "Factorio automation games",
  "management systems replacement"
]
title: "Creators Who Mock Their Own Craft: Comedians on Comedians — and Engineers Optimizing Engineers"
date: 2025-09-01
description: "Real examples of creators automating themselves out of jobs: Bo Burnham's meta-comedy about meaningless art, engineers building AI systems that replace programmers, and why we find satisfaction in our own obsolescence."
tags: [automation, creativity, engineering, comedy, management]
publish: true
thumbnailUrl: "/articles/placeholder.webp"
language: "en"
---

# Creators Who Mock Their Own Craft: Comedians on Comedians — and Engineers Optimizing Engineers

Can engineers build AI systems so good that they replace engineers entirely? And if they can, why would they do it?

I mean, think about it. We're the ones writing the code. We understand exactly what these systems can and can't do. We know which parts of our jobs are getting automated first, and which parts might never be replaceable. So if we're building our own replacement, we're doing it with full awareness of what we're destroying.

I think we absolutely will. Not because we have to, but because we want to.

Comedians spend entire sets explaining why comedy is meaningless. Game designers create games where the goal is making the player unnecessary. Managers build systems specifically designed to eliminate their own importance.

Creating your own obsolescence has this strange appeal. The better you get at your craft, the more you're drawn to making that craft unnecessary.

Last week I was debugging some automation code I'd written — code that eliminates the need for manual data processing that used to take our team hours every day. While I was fixing it, I realized I was using AI to help me write better code that replaces human work more efficiently.

I'm using AI to build better automation that eliminates human work. The irony hit me: I'm making myself obsolete with tools designed to make me obsolete.

This self-destructive impulse shows up everywhere. Great creators seem drawn to undermining their own importance, and somehow that makes their work more valuable, not less.

## When Comedians Dissect Comedy: The Art of Professional Self-Awareness

I remember watching Bo Burnham's "Make Happy" and feeling something click. Here was a comedian spending half his set explaining why comedy was pointless.

In his older work, he'd walk up to a spotlight mid-performance and tell the audience exactly how much that single light rental cost. Then he'd calculate how many children in Africa could be fed for the same amount. Just casually destroying the magic while standing in it.

But "Make Happy" hit different. Burnham spent the entire show talking about being a comedian who'd never done anything else. All his jokes about "real life" were completely made up. His only real experience was making jokes about not having real experiences.

The finale was brutal in its honesty. He talked about how comedians appear confident on stage, but actually know nothing and can do nothing. Then he made that confession itself into a joke. Even his vulnerability was performed.

His song "Art is Dead" captures this perfectly. The whole thing is about how artists are just attention-seeking people who learned to get what they want. He's singing about how meaningless his own art is, while creating art that's genuinely meaningful.

I loved it. But really, I was watching a comedian argue that comedians shouldn't exist. Burnham figured out how to use comedy to kill comedy.

This self-destruction becomes beautiful. He's not just analyzing comedy from the outside. He's using comedy to kill comedy from the inside, and somehow that creates something better than either analysis or comedy alone.

I recognize this impulse. My favorite code makes my job easier by doing the work for me. My most successful systems reduce the need for systems. Creating your own obsolescence feels right.

## The Manager's Paradox: Building Systems to Replace Yourself

I've been a manager since I was 16. Not because I was particularly good at it, but because I've always had at least one company running alongside whatever engineering work I was doing.

The thing about having employees is that you quickly realize you need more hands than just your own. In my family, this was always the default assumption. You don't try to do everything yourself — you find people who can help and figure out how to coordinate them.

So I hired my first assistant pretty early. Then more people. And no matter what I was working on, I kept asking myself the same question: if I got sick tomorrow and couldn't work for a week, would everything fall apart?

I became obsessed with building systems where I could disappear and nothing would break. Every process I documented, every workflow I set up, every decision framework I created — all designed so the company could run without me.

This backfired spectacularly a couple times. I got removed from situations where I really didn't want to be removed. Turns out when you make yourself replaceable, sometimes people actually replace you.

But in most cases, building systems to eliminate myself led to promotions, higher income, and more influence. The better I got at making myself unnecessary, the more necessary I became.

Most managers hoard information and create dependencies because they're terrified of being replaced. They become bottlenecks. Doing the opposite works — actively working to eliminate your own bottleneck status makes you valuable in a completely different way.

Now when I manage teams, I follow the same "fire myself" logic. Everything I build is designed so I could vanish tomorrow and the team would keep running smoothly. Good management eventually makes the manager replaceable.

## Game Designers Who Gamify Optimization: The Factorio Phenomenon

There's this whole category of games called automation simulators where the entire point is making yourself unnecessary. 

Take "Factorio" computer game. You start by mining ore with your hands, crafting basic items one at a time. But the goal isn't to keep doing that forever. The goal is to build a factory that does all of this automatically while you sleep.

I've watched friends spend entire evenings after work setting up conveyor belts and robotic systems. What they did by hand yesterday, today gets handled by machines. What required their attention last week now runs without any input from them at all.

This feels incredibly satisfying. You're literally working toward your own obsolescence in the game world, and that progression — from essential to completely unnecessary — is the core reward loop.

In Factorio, success is measured by how little the game needs you. A perfectly optimized factory runs for hours without any player intervention. You've built something so efficient that your presence becomes optional.

The game designers created a system where the ultimate achievement is making the player redundant. They took the concept of automation and turned it into entertainment. People come home from jobs where they might feel replaceable, then voluntarily play a game about replacing themselves.

This isn't just a game mechanic. It's the same drive that pushes engineers to write code that writes code, managers to build self-running teams, and comedians to create jokes about the pointlessness of jokes.

The game designers understood something fundamental. We find deep satisfaction in creating systems that make us unnecessary. Smart code eliminates the need for more code. Effective automation removes the need for manual work. Well-designed systems reduce the need for systems. Factorio just made that engineering satisfaction into a game.

## Engineers Optimizing Engineers: The Beautiful Recursion

For 14 months now, I've been writing code almost entirely through AI and voice commands in Cursor IDE. Yesterday I built a complete product page for an e-commerce site by talking to my computer for 20 minutes. No typing, just voice commands: "Create a new product page like the existing ones, but for wireless headphones with reviews and a buy button." Then a few more iterations to match the design and add the shopping cart integration.

I'm VP of Engineering at a startup. Before this, I spent 3 years as Director of R&D at two different companies, led data analysis teams of 8-12 people, founded several companies. I've been building and optimizing systems since I was 16.

Which makes what I'm about to say either more credible or more concerning, depending on how you look at it.

But that's not even the interesting part.

In the past 8 months, I've built 3 large-scale pipelines that do most of the programming work:

1. A system that generates complete CRUD APIs from database schemas (saves our team 40 hours per new service)
2. A system that automatically scrapes API documentation and writes complete integrations with those APIs
3. A system that analyzes task requirements and generates mobile apps using React Native

These aren't AI assistants that help programmers in chat. These are systems where LLMs write 80-90% of the codebase through hundreds of automated calls, and programmers review and finish the remaining 10-20%. We're still essential, but we've moved from writing code to orchestrating code generation.

I'm not just watching how these systems might take jobs away from lower-skilled engineers. I'm actively contributing to making it happen as fast as possible.

My brain is in exactly the same state I described with comedians, managers, and game designers. I find it beautiful how elegantly we can remove programmers — including myself — from the equation.

When people ask me whether programmers might accidentally build software that replaces them, I'm certain we will. Not accidentally. On purpose. Just for the elegance of it.

Engineers engineering their own obsolescence is perfectly recursive. We build the systems that make us unnecessary. We understand exactly what we're doing, and we keep doing it anyway because the automation is too elegant to resist.

The irony isn't lost on me. I'm using AI to write systems that replace human programmers, while finding genuine joy in how cleanly the whole process works. Every time I eliminate another manual step, every time I automate something that used to require human judgment, I feel the same satisfaction I get from a perfectly optimized algorithm.

Creating your own replacement is deeply satisfying, especially when you do it well.

I don't think this will happen overnight. There's a massive last-mile problem. Fine-tuning AI systems to handle edge cases will take longer than we think. Plus, improving these systems still falls on engineers — for now.

But the beauty in automation is compelling enough for engineers to eliminate themselves, even against their own interests.

We're building our own obsolescence because it's too elegant not to finish.

## The Pattern Behind the Pattern

Bo Burnham uses comedy to destroy comedy. I build management systems that eliminate managers. Game designers create entertainment about making players unnecessary. Engineers write code that replaces engineers.

This isn't masochism or career suicide. It's something deeper.

Here's what I think is actually happening: we're not building AI to replace engineers because we have to. We're doing it because it's the most interesting problem we've ever seen.

Every engineer I know got into this field because they love solving puzzles. And what's the ultimate puzzle? Building a system that can solve puzzles better than you can.

It's like Burnham using comedy to kill comedy. You see the problem and you want to solve it. Can you write code that writes better code than you do?

Some engineers say they're worried about AI taking their jobs. But watch what they actually build in their spare time. They're not building job protection - they're building automation.

We're going to automate engineering work because the challenge is too interesting to ignore. And when it works, we'll be proud of it.

Commit message:

fix: update article section titles for clarity and engagement
- Changed section titles in the article "Creators Who Mock Their Own Craft: Comedians on Comedians — and Engineers Optimizing Engineers" to better reflect the content and enhance reader engagement.
- Revised "The Manager's Paradox: Building Systems to Replace Yourself" to "Building Systems That Fire Me (And Why I Love It)" and "Engineers Optimizing Engineers: The Beautiful Recursion" to "We're Programming Our Own Replacement (And It's Working)" to emphasize the themes of self-obsolescence and automation.

src/content/articles/creators-who-mock-their-own-craft-examples.md, after:

---
keywords: [
  "engineers automation AI",
  "comedians self-aware comedy",
  "creators obsolescence automation",
  "Bo Burnham meta-comedy",
  "Factorio automation games",
  "management systems replacement"
]
title: "Creators Who Mock Their Own Craft: Comedians on Comedians — and Engineers Optimizing Engineers"
date: 2025-09-01
description: "Real examples of creators automating themselves out of jobs: Bo Burnham's meta-comedy about meaningless art, engineers building AI systems that replace programmers, and why we find satisfaction in our own obsolescence."
tags: [automation, creativity, engineering, comedy, management]
publish: true
thumbnailUrl: "/articles/placeholder.webp"
language: "en"
---

# Creators Who Mock Their Own Craft: Comedians on Comedians — and Engineers Optimizing Engineers

Can engineers build AI systems so good that they replace engineers entirely? And if they can, why would they do it?

I mean, think about it. We're the ones writing the code. We understand exactly what these systems can and can't do. We know which parts of our jobs are getting automated first, and which parts might never be replaceable. So if we're building our own replacement, we're doing it with full awareness of what we're destroying.

I think we absolutely will. Not because we have to, but because we want to.

Comedians spend entire sets explaining why comedy is meaningless. Game designers create games where the goal is making the player unnecessary. Managers build systems specifically designed to eliminate their own importance.

Creating your own obsolescence has this strange appeal. The better you get at your craft, the more you're drawn to making that craft unnecessary.

Last week I was debugging some automation code I'd written — code that eliminates the need for manual data processing that used to take our team hours every day. While I was fixing it, I realized I was using AI to help me write better code that replaces human work more efficiently.

I'm using AI to build better automation that eliminates human work. The irony hit me: I'm making myself obsolete with tools designed to make me obsolete.

This self-destructive impulse shows up everywhere. Great creators seem drawn to undermining their own importance, and somehow that makes their work more valuable, not less.

## When Comedians Dissect Comedy: The Art of Professional Self-Awareness

I remember watching Bo Burnham's "Make Happy" and feeling something click. Here was a comedian spending half his set explaining why comedy was pointless.

In his older work, he'd walk up to a spotlight mid-performance and tell the audience exactly how much that single light rental cost. Then he'd calculate how many children in Africa could be fed for the same amount. Just casually destroying the magic while standing in it.

But "Make Happy" hit different. Burnham spent the entire show talking about being a comedian who'd never done anything else. All his jokes about "real life" were completely made up. His only real experience was making jokes about not having real experiences.

The finale was brutal in its honesty. He talked about how comedians appear confident on stage, but actually know nothing and can do nothing. Then he made that confession itself into a joke. Even his vulnerability was performed.

His song "Art is Dead" captures this perfectly. The whole thing is about how artists are just attention-seeking people who learned to get what they want. He's singing about how meaningless his own art is, while creating art that's genuinely meaningful.

I loved it. But really, I was watching a comedian argue that comedians shouldn't exist. Burnham figured out how to use comedy to kill comedy.

This self-destruction becomes beautiful. He's not just analyzing comedy from the outside. He's using comedy to kill comedy from the inside, and somehow that creates something better than either analysis or comedy alone.

I recognize this impulse. My favorite code makes my job easier by doing the work for me. My most successful systems reduce the need for systems. Creating your own obsolescence feels right.

## Building Systems That Fire Me (And Why I Love It)

I've been a manager since I was 16. Not because I was particularly good at it, but because I've always had at least one company running alongside whatever engineering work I was doing.

The thing about having employees is that you quickly realize you need more hands than just your own. In my family, this was always the default assumption. You don't try to do everything yourself — you find people who can help and figure out how to coordinate them.

So I hired my first assistant pretty early. Then more people. And no matter what I was working on, I kept asking myself the same question: if I got sick tomorrow and couldn't work for a week, would everything fall apart?

I became obsessed with building systems where I could disappear and nothing would break. Every process I documented, every workflow I set up, every decision framework I created — all designed so the company could run without me.

This backfired spectacularly a couple times. I got removed from situations where I really didn't want to be removed. Turns out when you make yourself replaceable, sometimes people actually replace you.

But in most cases, building systems to eliminate myself led to promotions, higher income, and more influence. The better I got at making myself unnecessary, the more necessary I became.

Most managers hoard information and create dependencies because they're terrified of being replaced. They become bottlenecks. Doing the opposite works — actively working to eliminate your own bottleneck status makes you valuable in a completely different way.

Now when I manage teams, I follow the same "fire myself" logic. Everything I build is designed so I could vanish tomorrow and the team would keep running smoothly. Good management eventually makes the manager replaceable.

## Game Designers Who Gamify Optimization: The Factorio Phenomenon

There's this whole category of games called automation simulators where the entire point is making yourself unnecessary. 

Take "Factorio" computer game. You start by mining ore with your hands, crafting basic items one at a time. But the goal isn't to keep doing that forever. The goal is to build a factory that does all of this automatically while you sleep.

I've watched friends spend entire evenings after work setting up conveyor belts and robotic systems. What they did by hand yesterday, today gets handled by machines. What required their attention last week now runs without any input from them at all.

This feels incredibly satisfying. You're literally working toward your own obsolescence in the game world, and that progression — from essential to completely unnecessary — is the core reward loop.

In Factorio, success is measured by how little the game needs you. A perfectly optimized factory runs for hours without any player intervention. You've built something so efficient that your presence becomes optional.

The game designers created a system where the ultimate achievement is making the player redundant. They took the concept of automation and turned it into entertainment. People come home from jobs where they might feel replaceable, then voluntarily play a game about replacing themselves.

This isn't just a game mechanic. It's the same drive that pushes engineers to write code that writes code, managers to build self-running teams, and comedians to create jokes about the pointlessness of jokes.

The game designers understood something fundamental. We find deep satisfaction in creating systems that make us unnecessary. Smart code eliminates the need for more code. Effective automation removes the need for manual work. Well-designed systems reduce the need for systems. Factorio just made that engineering satisfaction into a game.

## We're Programming Our Own Replacement (And It's Working)

For 14 months now, I've been writing code almost entirely through AI and voice commands in Cursor IDE. Yesterday I built a complete product page for an e-commerce site by talking to my computer for 20 minutes. No typing, just voice commands: "Create a new product page like the existing ones, but for wireless headphones with reviews and a buy button." Then a few more iterations to match the design and add the shopping cart integration.

I'm VP of Engineering at a startup. Before this, I spent 3 years as Director of R&D at two different companies, led data analysis teams of 8-12 people, founded several companies. I've been building and optimizing systems since I was 16.

Which makes what I'm about to say either more credible or more concerning, depending on how you look at it.

But that's not even the interesting part.

In the past 8 months, I've built 3 large-scale pipelines that do most of the programming work:

1. A system that generates complete CRUD APIs from database schemas (saves our team 40 hours per new service)
2. A system that automatically scrapes API documentation and writes complete integrations with those APIs
3. A system that analyzes task requirements and generates mobile apps using React Native

These aren't AI assistants that help programmers in chat. These are systems where LLMs write 80-90% of the codebase through hundreds of automated calls, and programmers review and finish the remaining 10-20%. We're still essential, but we've moved from writing code to orchestrating code generation.

I'm not just watching how these systems might take jobs away from lower-skilled engineers. I'm actively contributing to making it happen as fast as possible.

My brain is in exactly the same state I described with comedians, managers, and game designers. I find it beautiful how elegantly we can remove programmers — including myself — from the equation.

When people ask me whether programmers might accidentally build software that replaces them, I'm certain we will. Not accidentally. On purpose. Just for the elegance of it.

Engineers engineering their own obsolescence is perfectly recursive. We build the systems that make us unnecessary. We understand exactly what we're doing, and we keep doing it anyway because the automation is too elegant to resist.

The irony isn't lost on me. I'm using AI to write systems that replace human programmers, while finding genuine joy in how cleanly the whole process works. Every time I eliminate another manual step, every time I automate something that used to require human judgment, I feel the same satisfaction I get from a perfectly optimized algorithm.

Creating your own replacement is deeply satisfying, especially when you do it well.

I don't think this will happen overnight. There's a massive last-mile problem. Fine-tuning AI systems to handle edge cases will take longer than we think. Plus, improving these systems still falls on engineers — for now.

But the beauty in automation is compelling enough for engineers to eliminate themselves, even against their own interests.

We're building our own obsolescence because it's too elegant not to finish.

## The Pattern Behind the Pattern

Bo Burnham uses comedy to destroy comedy. I build management systems that eliminate managers. Game designers create entertainment about making players unnecessary. Engineers write code that replaces engineers.

This isn't masochism or career suicide. It's something deeper.

Here's what I think is actually happening: we're not building AI to replace engineers because we have to. We're doing it because it's the most interesting problem we've ever seen.

Every engineer I know got into this field because they love solving puzzles. And what's the ultimate puzzle? Building a system that can solve puzzles better than you can.

It's like Burnham using comedy to kill comedy. You see the problem and you want to solve it. Can you write code that writes better code than you do?

Some engineers say they're worried about AI taking their jobs. But watch what they actually build in their spare time. They're not building job protection - they're building automation.

We're going to automate engineering work because the challenge is too interesting to ignore. And when it works, we'll be proud of it.
