src/content/articles/cursor-vs-notion-reddit-post.md, before:

---
title: "Cursor IDE VS Notion AI: Comparing AI Coding Tools"
date: 2025-01-15
tags: [productivity, ai, tools]
aliases: [cursor-vs-notion, coding-tools-comparison]
related: [cursor-ide-setup-workflow-for-large-scale-projects]
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Cursor IDE VS Notion AI: Comparing AI Coding Tools

Hey everyone! I'm trying to figure out the best way to put a large collection of markdown content online as a nice, SEO-friendly website, where some stuff would be public and searchable, while other parts would need login access. Anyone found good solutions for handling large collections of interlinked Markdown files with mixed access like this?

I've been really enjoying using Cursor IDE in Composer Agent mode with voice commands (SuperWhisper) to manage my Obsidian vault - it's just so much more efficient than Notion or similar tools. The voice-driven workflow feels so natural that I've not only moved my personal knowledge base this way, but also started managing several of my companies' docs and standards like this (about 1000+ markdown files across all repos), ditching all the UI-based tools completely. Now I'm thinking of expanding this to all our company content - from marketing materials to internal wikis, all in Markdown.

Current setup:
- Cursor IDE as main interface
- SuperWhisper for voice recognition
- Everything in plain Markdown in repos

### Q&A

**Q: What's the recommended approach for publishing markdown content online?**

Static site generators are a great solution for this use case. Here are several options to consider:

- **NextJS** - A powerful React framework that can handle markdown
- **Astro** - Modern static site generator with native markdown support
- **Hugo** - Fast and reliable solution for static site generation
- **Obsidian Publish** - Direct integration with your existing Obsidian vault

**Q: How does this work with large documentation sets across multiple repositories?**

While static site generators like Jekyll are excellent for personal websites, scaling them across multiple repositories and large documentation sets can be challenging. The key is finding a solution that balances simplicity with maintainability. Obsidian Publish might be particularly well-suited for this use case as it maintains the direct connection with your existing Obsidian vault structure.

Commit message:

Add descriptions to article metadata for enhanced clarity and SEO
- Included description fields in multiple articles to provide context and improve user engagement.
- This addition aims to enhance SEO performance by offering more informative metadata for search engines and readers.

src/content/articles/cursor-vs-notion-reddit-post.md, after:

---
title: "Cursor IDE VS Notion AI: Comparing AI Coding Tools"
date: 2025-01-15
description: "Why I switched from Notion to Cursor IDE with voice commands for managing markdown content. Comparing these tools for documentation and knowledge management."
tags: [productivity, ai, tools]
aliases: [cursor-vs-notion, coding-tools-comparison]
related: [cursor-ide-setup-workflow-for-large-scale-projects]
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Cursor IDE VS Notion AI: Comparing AI Coding Tools

Hey everyone! I'm trying to figure out the best way to put a large collection of markdown content online as a nice, SEO-friendly website, where some stuff would be public and searchable, while other parts would need login access. Anyone found good solutions for handling large collections of interlinked Markdown files with mixed access like this?

I've been really enjoying using Cursor IDE in Composer Agent mode with voice commands (SuperWhisper) to manage my Obsidian vault - it's just so much more efficient than Notion or similar tools. The voice-driven workflow feels so natural that I've not only moved my personal knowledge base this way, but also started managing several of my companies' docs and standards like this (about 1000+ markdown files across all repos), ditching all the UI-based tools completely. Now I'm thinking of expanding this to all our company content - from marketing materials to internal wikis, all in Markdown.

Current setup:
- Cursor IDE as main interface
- SuperWhisper for voice recognition
- Everything in plain Markdown in repos

### Q&A

**Q: What's the recommended approach for publishing markdown content online?**

Static site generators are a great solution for this use case. Here are several options to consider:

- **NextJS** - A powerful React framework that can handle markdown
- **Astro** - Modern static site generator with native markdown support
- **Hugo** - Fast and reliable solution for static site generation
- **Obsidian Publish** - Direct integration with your existing Obsidian vault

**Q: How does this work with large documentation sets across multiple repositories?**

While static site generators like Jekyll are excellent for personal websites, scaling them across multiple repositories and large documentation sets can be challenging. The key is finding a solution that balances simplicity with maintainability. Obsidian Publish might be particularly well-suited for this use case as it maintains the direct connection with your existing Obsidian vault structure.
