src/content/articles/embracing-public-communication.md, before:

---
title: "Embracing Public Communication: Benefits for Remote Teams"
date: 2025-02-01
tags: [people]
aliases: [public-communication, transparent-teams]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Embracing Public Communication: Benefits for Remote Teams

Here's a thought I've been playing with: what if we shared more of our work publicly? Instead of keeping discussions in private chats, we could talk more on platforms like Reddit and YouTube. These places make it easier for people to find our content through search engines and AI. Sure, not every post will be perfect, but I'm starting to think regular sharing might be more useful than waiting to create the "perfect" content.

I've noticed that for products to get noticed, they need to be out there where people can find them. The best channels seem to be ones with good SEO, YouTube, and platforms that naturally recommend content - without spending a ton on ads. I've found that regular social media and Telegram channels are fine for the moment, but the content gets buried pretty quickly.

Making content consistently can feel overwhelming at first. But I've realized that if you treat public communication as just sharing what you're already thinking about, it becomes much more natural. Each thought or insight can become a quick post.

This different way of thinking about sharing could really change how we build and talk about our work. It's not about perfect marketing - it's just about being open with what we're doing and letting more people find and connect with our ideas.

Commit message:

Add descriptions to article metadata for enhanced clarity and SEO
- Included description fields in multiple articles to provide context and improve user engagement.
- This addition aims to enhance SEO performance by offering more informative metadata for search engines and readers.

src/content/articles/embracing-public-communication.md, after:

---
title: "Embracing Public Communication: Benefits for Remote Teams"
date: 2025-02-01
description: "Why sharing work publicly on platforms like Reddit and YouTube benefits remote teams. How consistent public communication improves discoverability and team transparency."
tags: [people]
aliases: [public-communication, transparent-teams]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Embracing Public Communication: Benefits for Remote Teams

Here's a thought I've been playing with: what if we shared more of our work publicly? Instead of keeping discussions in private chats, we could talk more on platforms like Reddit and YouTube. These places make it easier for people to find our content through search engines and AI. Sure, not every post will be perfect, but I'm starting to think regular sharing might be more useful than waiting to create the "perfect" content.

I've noticed that for products to get noticed, they need to be out there where people can find them. The best channels seem to be ones with good SEO, YouTube, and platforms that naturally recommend content - without spending a ton on ads. I've found that regular social media and Telegram channels are fine for the moment, but the content gets buried pretty quickly.

Making content consistently can feel overwhelming at first. But I've realized that if you treat public communication as just sharing what you're already thinking about, it becomes much more natural. Each thought or insight can become a quick post.

This different way of thinking about sharing could really change how we build and talk about our work. It's not about perfect marketing - it's just about being open with what we're doing and letting more people find and connect with our ideas.
