src/content/articles/linkedin-post-hourly-billing-breaks.md, before:

---
title: Don't charge clients for short breaks when you bill by the hour
date: 2024-11-04
tags:
- post
aliases:
- media-posts-archive
related: []
publish: true
lastmod: 2025-04-02
---

Many clients are familiar with the Pomodoro Method: 25 minutes of work, then a 5-minute break. Here's a new way to handle these breaks.

Don't charge for short breaks. Include them in your service for free. Use these breaks to really rest and breathe, not to count time. When you don't charge for them, your brain switches better, and you feel much more comfortable.

If you're worried about losing money, don't charge time. Instead, increase your hourly rate to cover focused work and needed breaks.

What do you think? Could this work in your consulting business?

P.S.: Thanks to [Lena Shakurova](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lena-shakurova/), for recommending the Toggl service to me. Recently, I started working with more clients as usual as a Data Engineer and AI consultant, and I really like this time tracking service.

Commit message:

Enhance articles section with tag management and metadata updates
- Introduced a Tag Analysis Script in the project guidelines to assist in managing article tags and maintaining consistent taxonomy.
- Updated CSS styles for article tags to improve visual presentation and interactivity.
- Modified articles page metadata to provide a more engaging description and ensure tag parameters are handled in lowercase for consistency.
- Adjusted individual article pages to link tags for better navigation and user experience.
- Updated JSON-LD structured data to reflect new metadata descriptions for improved SEO.
- Revised multiple article markdown files to update titles, tags, and last modified dates for better organization and clarity.

src/content/articles/linkedin-post-hourly-billing-breaks.md, after:

---
title: "Hourly Billing Without Breaks: The Impact on Quality and Wellbeing"
date: 2024-12-15
tags: [work-management, productivity]
aliases: [hourly-billing, freelancer-breaks]
related: []
publish: true
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Hourly Billing Without Breaks: The Impact on Quality and Wellbeing

Many clients are familiar with the Pomodoro Method: 25 minutes of work, then a 5-minute break. Here's a new way to handle these breaks.

Don't charge for short breaks. Include them in your service for free. Use these breaks to really rest and breathe, not to count time. When you don't charge for them, your brain switches better, and you feel much more comfortable.

If you're worried about losing money, don't charge time. Instead, increase your hourly rate to cover focused work and needed breaks.

What do you think? Could this work in your consulting business?

P.S.: Thanks to [Lena Shakurova](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lena-shakurova/), for recommending the Toggl service to me. Recently, I started working with more clients as usual as a Data Engineer and AI consultant, and I really like this time tracking service.
