src/content/articles/prioritizing-important-over-urgent-tasks.md, before:

---
title: "Prioritizing Important Over Urgent Tasks: Strategies for Focus"
date: 2024-10-20
tags: [productivity, work-management]
aliases: [important-over-urgent, focus-strategies]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Prioritizing Important Over Urgent Tasks: Strategies for Focus

![Example of task prioritization in Notion with P0-P3 priority levels](/articles/assets/prioritizing-important-over-urgent-tasks/notion-task-priorities-example.webp)

- Приоритизация важных задач над срочными
- Фокус на задачах, которые больше всего влияют на главные цели
- Не делать первыми задачи, которые:
  - просто срочные
  - первыми пришли в голову
  - просто хочется сделать
- Делать первыми задачи, которые:
  - важны для достижения главных целей
  - имеют долгосрочное влияние на жизнь

Commit message:

Add descriptions to article metadata for enhanced clarity and SEO
- Included description fields in multiple articles to provide context and improve user engagement.
- This addition aims to enhance SEO performance by offering more informative metadata for search engines and readers.

src/content/articles/prioritizing-important-over-urgent-tasks.md, after:

---
title: "Prioritizing Important Over Urgent Tasks: Strategies for Focus"
date: 2024-10-20
description: "Practical strategies for focusing on tasks that truly matter. How to distinguish between important and merely urgent tasks to achieve meaningful long-term goals."
tags: [productivity, work-management]
aliases: [important-over-urgent, focus-strategies]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# Prioritizing Important Over Urgent Tasks: Strategies for Focus

![Example of task prioritization in Notion with P0-P3 priority levels](/articles/assets/prioritizing-important-over-urgent-tasks/notion-task-priorities-example.webp)

- Приоритизация важных задач над срочными
- Фокус на задачах, которые больше всего влияют на главные цели
- Не делать первыми задачи, которые:
  - просто срочные
  - первыми пришли в голову
  - просто хочется сделать
- Делать первыми задачи, которые:
  - важны для достижения главных целей
  - имеют долгосрочное влияние на жизнь
