src/content/articles/reddit-post-about-open-source.md, before:

---
title: "The Importance of Open Source in Software Development"
date: 2024-09-15
tags: [development]
aliases: [open-source-importance, software-transparency]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# The Importance of Open Source in Software Development

I have a few open source repositories on my GitHub profile. Usually, they only get users when I mention them publicly. However, one of my repositories is gaining stars and users on its own. It is interesting.

Suddenly, people started:
1. Installing my pip package
2. Submitting pull requests
3. Starring the repository

GitHub repo insights traffic shows that most people come from Google.

At pypistats I can see much more activity after 2024-11-06 but I did nothing these dates.

Do you have any ideas about why this is happening? How does it work? Why were no visitors and changed in a single day without my activity?

How does it work on your repos?

I would love to create more useful open source solutions that people can find organically, without needing to promote it myself. But I still don't understand how this process works.

Commit message:

Add descriptions to article metadata for enhanced clarity and SEO
- Included description fields in multiple articles to provide context and improve user engagement.
- This addition aims to enhance SEO performance by offering more informative metadata for search engines and readers.

src/content/articles/reddit-post-about-open-source.md, after:

---
title: "The Importance of Open Source in Software Development"
date: 2024-09-15
description: "My experience with an open source repository that suddenly gained traction without promotion. Exploring how organic discovery works in the open source ecosystem."
tags: [development]
aliases: [open-source-importance, software-transparency]
related: []
publish: false
lastmod: 2025-04-14
---

# The Importance of Open Source in Software Development

I have a few open source repositories on my GitHub profile. Usually, they only get users when I mention them publicly. However, one of my repositories is gaining stars and users on its own. It is interesting.

Suddenly, people started:
1. Installing my pip package
2. Submitting pull requests
3. Starring the repository

GitHub repo insights traffic shows that most people come from Google.

At pypistats I can see much more activity after 2024-11-06 but I did nothing these dates.

Do you have any ideas about why this is happening? How does it work? Why were no visitors and changed in a single day without my activity?

How does it work on your repos?

I would love to create more useful open source solutions that people can find organically, without needing to promote it myself. But I still don't understand how this process works.
